I bet that you just read that
using Morgan Freeman's voice.
You know I'm right. Okay.
Welcome to Journal Exercise Number 6
which is called C.A.P, "C.A.Ping Your Brilliant Content".
Morgan Freeman is my favorite actor.
His performance in
"The Shawshank Redemption" was impeccable.
And when he speaks, everything he says sounds so awesome,
so soothing, so perfective and so poetic.
Professor Chris Haroun
is the worst teacher ever.
He was actually in this movie called "The Bucket List".
This movie, "The Bucket List", has the tagline here
"time to start living". I love that.
Some other actor here named Jack Nicholas,
I think he golfs as well, he's in this.
Just kidding.
So this Jack guy was in the movie too.
And they created this movie called "The Bucket List".
And "The Bucket List" means a list
of everything you want to do in life
but you've not done yet.
In this movie, they talk about going to the pyramids.
On you list can be skydiving, driving a race car,
or whatever it might be.
Make your own bucket list one day.
A lot of people make these bucket lists
and they're not really ordered.
They're just kind of a collection
of brilliant things you'll do one .
Hold on a second.
I want to do this where you will remember this.
This is my bucket list cap.
See, I'm wearing a cap, C-A-P.
C-A-P stands for
C is cider, remember cider was the last lecture,
lecture before that.
C-I-D-E-R, that's the C.
The A and then there's P.
A stands for audience.
P stands for purpose.
We covered both of these in earlier exercises.
C-A-P, CAP.
What you say in your speech should adhere to C-A-P.
Meaning cider, audience, and purpose.
We're gonna make sure that we remember CAP, C-A-P
with everything that we put into our speech for our content.
Everything we say must go into the CAP bucket.
Stay with me, please.
This will all make sense in a second.
We need to ask ourselves the following questions
when we create the content for our speech.
Are the items in our bucket convincing?
Are the items in this bucket interesting?
Are the items in this bucket different?
Are the items in this bucket educational?
Are the items in this bucket relevant?
Remember the so what test.
(trumpets)
Cider, that's the C in CAP.
Are the items in this bucket targeted at our audience?
Right, the A.
Are the items in this bucket helping
to discuss the purpose of our presentation.
They have to adhere to A and they have to adhere to P.
We're gonna go through
every single thing we documented already
in journal exercise number five.
And we're gonna ask ourselves
"does this item that we wrote down go in the CAP,
C-A-P bucket or not?".
This will make sense, in a second. Stay with me.
Meaning, is the item we wrote down,
does it satisfy one of these five things for C?
Is it convincing, interesting, different,
educational, or relevant?
And also it has to make sure
that you're targeting the right audience.
And that you're answering the purpose of your speech.
The A and the P.
Don't overthink this please.
Just write down yes or no in the silver C-A-P,
CAP column right now.
And if you want, copy and paste a completed table
that you did in exercise number five
and paste it here in exercise number six.
Or just complete the silver column and leave it
in exercise five.
Either way works.
Are the items in this bucket list
convincing, interesting, different, educational, relevant?
The A and P in CAP stands for audience and purpose
which we covered in earlier exercises.
Now if this seems a bit confusing to you,
then just write down yes or no
to the answer so what.
(trumpets\}
Is this item meeting the purpose or goal of my speech?
Yes or no.
Meaning so what.
(trumpets)
In that silver column.
And please pause me and then come back to me
once you've answered yes or no in the silver column.
This will make a lot of sense.
Thank you.
I hope you did it. Thanks.
After you've completed the exercise
by writing yes or no in all the silver-shaded buckets
then I want you to delete or draw a line
through all the rows that had the word no as the answer.
As you can see, I did it here.
And the reason is because we don't want
to include these lines in our presentation.
Separately, one day when you create your own bucket list
I hope your bucket list of items is a presentation
to more than 10,000 people
(fingers snap)
and you enjoy doing it too.
Feeling alive out there.
Now if you have any questions about this exercise
just please let me know.
Again, if it's too much work
just kind of answer the question,
"is this relevant?"
In the silver column by answering yes or no.
And then delete the lines where you wrote no.
Again please let me know if you have any questions.
Thank you.
Professor Chris Haroun
is the worst teacher ever.